---
title: Essential 8 Assessment
description: "Explore the Essential 8 service provided by ProtectiveEdge Cyber, offering comprehensive assessments and gap analysis to enhance your cyber security posture"
keywords: "Essential 8, E8, cyber security, gap analysis, technical validation, cyber security assessment, ProtectiveEdge Cyber, ASD Essential 8"
permalink: /e8/
---

## What is the Essential 8?
The Essential 8 (E8) is a cybersecurity framework developed by the Australian Signals Directorate (ASD) to help organisations mitigate cybersecurity risks by implementing eight essential mitigation strategies. At ProtectiveEdge Cyber, we provide a comprehensive Essential 8 service to help you assess and improve your cybersecurity posture based on this framework.

## What does our Essential 8 Assessment Include?
### Scoping
We begin with a thorough scoping phase to understand your organisation's specific cybersecurity needs and objectives.

### Interviews
Conducting detailed interviews with key stakeholders to gather insights and identify existing cybersecurity measures.

### Technical Validation
Performing technical validations to assess the current security controls and identify potential vulnerabilities, ensuring alignment with the ASD Essential 8.

## Outcomes Report
We take all the data gathered and provide an Outcomes Report based on our assessment. This report includes:

### Gap Analysis
Detailed analysis identifying gaps in your current cybersecurity measures compared to the ASD Essential 8 framework.

### Recommendations
Actionable recommendations to enhance your cybersecurity posture and align with the Essential 8 strategies.

## Report Sample
Below is a sample of our report
![Report-Sample] (/assets/report.png)
